research/ralph-loop/README.md, before:

# Ralph Loop Research

A knowledge base documenting the Ralph Wiggum Loop technique for autonomous AI coding agents.

## Contents

| Document | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| [OVERVIEW.md](./OVERVIEW.md) | Core concepts, philosophy, and the basic pattern |
| [IMPLEMENTATION.md](./IMPLEMENTATION.md) | Technical implementation details and code examples |
| [FAILURE-MODES.md](./FAILURE-MODES.md) | Known failure patterns and mitigations |
| [BEST-PRACTICES.md](./BEST-PRACTICES.md) | Tips, guardrails, and practical guidance |
| [HISTORY.md](./HISTORY.md) | Timeline and evolution of the technique |
| [CYBERNETICS-ANALYSIS.md](./CYBERNETICS-ANALYSIS.md) | Analysis through a Cybernetics lens |
| [sources/](./sources/) | Primary source materials (blogs, videos, transcripts) |

## Quick Reference

```bash
# The Ralph Loop in its purest form
while :; do cat PROMPT.md | claude ; done
```

**Key Insight:** Progress persists in files and git history, not in the LLM's context window.

## Sources

See [sources/](./sources/) for the complete collection of primary source materials with transcripts, summaries, and links.

Additional references:

- [Geoffrey Huntley - Everything is a Ralph Loop](https://ghuntley.com/loop/)
- [GitHub - how-to-ralph-wiggum](https://github.com/ghuntley/how-to-ralph-wiggum)
- [Alibaba Cloud - From ReAct to Ralph Loop](https://www.alibabacloud.com/blog/from-react-to-ralph-loop-a-continuous-iteration-paradigm-for-ai-agents_602799)
- [DEV Community - 2026: The Year of the Ralph Loop Agent](https://dev.to/alexandergekov/2026-the-year-of-the-ralph-loop-agent-1gkj)
- [AI Hero - 11 Tips For AI Coding With Ralph Wiggum](https://www.aihero.dev/tips-for-ai-coding-with-ralph-wiggum)

Commit message:

docs(ralph-loop): add additional reference sources with extracted articles
Add Markdown source folders for the 5 additional references listed in
the Ralph Loop README. Each folder contains the full extracted article
content (article.md) and curated metadata with summary, key concepts,
and cross-references (README.md).

New sources:
- blog-everything-is-a-ralph-loop: Huntley's philosophical manifesto
- repo-how-to-ralph-wiggum: Clayton Farr's comprehensive playbook
- blog-react-to-ralph-loop: Alibaba Cloud's ReAct comparison
- blog-year-of-ralph-loop-agent: Gekov's mainstream adoption overview
- blog-tips-for-ai-coding-ralph: Pocock's 11 practical tips

Update sources/README.md index to list all 13 sources with a new
GitHub Repositories section. Convert additional references in the main
README from external URLs to local source folder links. Add
cross-references from the original technique source.

research/ralph-loop/README.md, after:

# Ralph Loop Research

A knowledge base documenting the Ralph Wiggum Loop technique for autonomous AI coding agents.

## Contents

| Document | Purpose |
|----------|---------|
| [OVERVIEW.md](./OVERVIEW.md) | Core concepts, philosophy, and the basic pattern |
| [IMPLEMENTATION.md](./IMPLEMENTATION.md) | Technical implementation details and code examples |
| [FAILURE-MODES.md](./FAILURE-MODES.md) | Known failure patterns and mitigations |
| [BEST-PRACTICES.md](./BEST-PRACTICES.md) | Tips, guardrails, and practical guidance |
| [HISTORY.md](./HISTORY.md) | Timeline and evolution of the technique |
| [CYBERNETICS-ANALYSIS.md](./CYBERNETICS-ANALYSIS.md) | Analysis through a Cybernetics lens |
| [sources/](./sources/) | Primary source materials (blogs, videos, transcripts) |

## Quick Reference

```bash
# The Ralph Loop in its purest form
while :; do cat PROMPT.md | claude ; done
```

**Key Insight:** Progress persists in files and git history, not in the LLM's context window.

## Sources

See [sources/](./sources/) for the complete collection of primary source materials with transcripts, summaries, and links.

Additional references (full source materials in [sources/](./sources/)):

- [Everything is a Ralph Loop](./sources/blog-everything-is-a-ralph-loop/) -- Geoffrey Huntley
- [The Ralph Playbook](./sources/repo-how-to-ralph-wiggum/) -- Clayton Farr
- [From ReAct to Ralph Loop](./sources/blog-react-to-ralph-loop/) -- DanKun (Alibaba Cloud)
- [2026: The Year of the Ralph Loop Agent](./sources/blog-year-of-ralph-loop-agent/) -- Alexander Gekov
- [11 Tips For AI Coding With Ralph Wiggum](./sources/blog-tips-for-ai-coding-ralph/) -- Matt Pocock (AI Hero)
